# Data Engineering at One King's Lane

One Kings Lane sell products. Seems easy enough. All you need to do is
record what you sell. Oh, right, we probably should be recording where
we're buying the products, and how much we're paying for them
too. Hmm, we probably should track their performance so we're making
sure that we're only selling the best of the best for home
furnishings.  It'd probably also be good if our merchandisers could
tell our vendors which of their products do well, so we can get more
of them.  Ah, and with so many products, it'd be great to help guide
our customers through them with recommendations... and search... and
filtering by attributes... and extracting non-obvious attributes.


The bottom line is: Everyone. Needs. Data. And that's where we come in!

As a member of the Data Engineering team at One Kings Lane, you'll be
in the business of data fulfillment: making sure data gets to the
people who need it on schedule, and on a platform that will works for
the way they will consume their data.  You'll be working along side a
passionate and dedicated team.


# Position: Data Engineering - Data Modeling & Warehousing Specialist

The Data Warehousing specialist role is an integral part of the OKL
Data Engineering team. This role is responsible organizing and
modeling our data to support the needs of our Analytics, Marketing,
and Data Science organizations. While the role will have a heavy SQL
focus, a collection of new and exciting technologies will also be at
your finger tips, enabling and encouraging you to think outside of the
box on how we store and process data. Becoming very intimately
connected to the data that runs our rapidly growing retail business,
you'll guide various consumers and partners through the data to help
them find the best approaches to answering their questions. This role will work
 closely with the other members of the data engineering team to help
 guide the development of tools to enhance your efficiency and
 productivity, and ensure the reliability and stability of the
 data warehouse, as well as engage with our customers
 to ensure they're having the best experience we can possibly provide


More concisely, this role will:
 * Be responsible for the design and maintenance of the over all Data
   Warehouse.
 * Assist in the development of new ETL Jobs that integrate multiple
   data sources.
 * Write efficient SQL from business requirements.
 * Work closely with business analysts for data acceptance, change
   management, and ensure quality.
 * Provide advice and guidance to the various teams working with data
   to searching for insight.
 * Be a champion of performance, scalability, and reliability.

In a nutshell: You love data, thinking abstractly about data, finding
commonalities across seemingly disjoint problems. Data is like clay to
you. You want to push it, pull it, extract it, and extrude it into new
and wonderful shapes. Correctness, quality, and consistency are
important to you, and you feel there's a certain elegance you provide
when translating business requirements into a data model, and get a
rush of seeing the sparkle in an analysts eyes when you give them a
new data set to play with. You want to see a problem completely
solved, and understand that its important to not only listen to what
the customer wants, but help give voice to what they didn't know they
wanted. You are excited by delivering, and are addicted to the high of
making a visible impact not only in the company, but in people's every
day lives.



# Qualifications and Required Skills

 * Bachelor's Degree
 * A strong sense of teamwork
 * A commitment to writing understandable, maintainable, and reusable
   software
 * Great verbal and oral communication skills
 * An innate desire to deliver
 * Excited by the prospect of learning and working with new or
   unconventional technologies
 * Strong SQL Skills
 * Familiar with performance concepts like indices and explain plans.
 * Employ common SQL design patterns for top records, ordering,
   cross-tab, etc.


# Desired Skills

 Though not required, having experience in any of the following areas
 would be a boon

 * Data Processing Technologies
 * Databases (SQL and NoSQL)
 * Cloud services deployment
 * Data Warehousing
 * Business Intelligence
 * Map / Reduce
 * Clojure, Java, Ruby
